1-2INTRODUCTION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMAbout This Manual
This manual provides op eration and maintenance 
information for the SW405K wheel loader.
WARNING
Unsafe operation and maintenance of this machine could result in death or serious injury. This machine must be operated and maintained by trained and experienced personnel. Do not operate or work on this machine without first reading and understanding this operation and maintenance manual.
It is important to read and understand this manual before 
beginning any operation or service. All personnel involved with this machine should read this manual 
periodically to remain knowledgeable on its operation and service.
Items addressed in this manual are designed to help the 
operator or service personnel:
• Understand the controls  and operation of the 
machine.
• Point out possible hazardous situations when 
operating or maintaining the machine.
• Increase machine efficiency during operation.• Prolong the service life of the machine.• Reduce maintenance costs.
Continuing improvements in the design of this machine 
can lead to changes which may not be covered in this manual. Contact a SANY dealer for the latest available information on the machine or to answer any questions regarding informati on in this manual.Documentation Package
This documentation applies only to this machine and 
should not be used with any other machine. The documentation for this machine includes the following items:
Operation and Maintenance Manual
A copy of this manual must be stored in the machine or be accessible to the operator at all times. If the machine is sold, a copy of this manual must be provided to the new owner.
A copy of the operation and maintenance manual should 
be made available to maintenance personnel when servicing the machine.
Parts Manual
The parts manual consists of parts lists and matching drawings used for ordering spare parts as needed. The parts manual must be made available to all service personnel.
Maintenance Log
The maintenance log lists regularly scheduled maintenance that should be performed by the operator or service personnel. All maintenance performed on the machine must be recorded in the maintenance log.

INTRODUCTION
1-3 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMOrganization of This Manual
Introduction
Contains an overview of this manual, serial number 
information, and SANY contact information.
Safety
Hazard alerts used throughout the manual are explained. General and product-specific  safety information is 
provided for this manual.
Machine Controls
An overview of controls and the operating systems is provided in this section.
Machine Operation
Detailed prestart checks, operating procedures, end-of-day checks, general operating instructions, and storage information.
Maintenance
Routine maintenance procedures and fluid specifications.
Specifications
General dimensions and weight of the machine, and systems/components performance information.Machine Applications
This SW405K is a versatile construction machine used primarily for transferring and loading material.
It can be used for digging, leveling, carrying heavy loads, 
and to remove ice and snow from road surfaces.
 A wheel loader can be adapted with optional equipment 
such as forks, scrapers, or different bucket types.
SANY assumes no responsib ility for any consequence 
caused by use outside this specified range.
Machine Directions
In this manual, the front, righ t, back, and left directions 
indicate the moving direction when viewed from the operator seat (see Fig. 1-1).
0002717Figure 1-1
1) Front 3) Back
2) Right 4) Left1
4 2
3

1-4INTRODUCTION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMSerial Number Location
Product identification plates are located in various places 
on the wheel loader. These list model and serial numbers that will be needed by a SANY dealer when ordering 
replacement parts or providing assistance with the machine.
Machine Identification Plate
0004881Figure 1-2
The machine identification plate is on the front left of the 
frame.
Engine Identification Plate
0004882Figure 1-3
The engine identification plate is on the lower left side of 
the engine.


INTRODUCTION
1-5 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMTransmission Identification Plate
0004883Figure 1-4
The transmission identification pl ate is on the front left of 
the transmission.
Axle Identification Plate
0004884Figure 1-5
The axle identification plate is on the front left of the axle 
housing.


1-6INTRODUCTION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMSANY Contact Information
SANY
318 Cooper Circle 
Peachtree City, GA 30269 
www.sanyamerica.com 
Phone: 470-552-SANY (7269) 
Find a dealer, go to www.sanyamerica.com/find-a-dealer
Record of Serial Number and Dealer Information
Use this table to record the product information related to this machine.
Machine Serial No.Engine Serial No.
Front Axle Serial No.
Rear Axle Serial No.Transmission Serial No.
Hydraulic Pump Serial No.
Dealer Name:
Address:Phone Numbers:

INTRODUCTION
1-7 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMCorrection Request Form
If you find a problem with th is manual, make a copy of 
this page, complete the form below, and send it to SANY.
Correction Request Form
Date of This NotificationYour Name
Company Name
DepartmentStreet Address
City, State, and ZIP/Postal Code
PhoneE-mail
Machine Model and Serial No.
Description of Problem (wrong information, unclear or erroneous procedure, etc.)
Corrective Action Taken (if any)

1-8INTRODUCTION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMGlossary of Acronyms
ANSI – American Natio nal Standards Institute
CCTV – Closed-Circuit TelevisionDEF – Diesel Exhaust FluidDPF – Diesel Part iculate Filter
DVR – Digital Video RecorderEAT – Exhaust After TreatmentECM – Engine Control ModuleGPS – Global Positioning SystemHEST – High Exhaust System TemperaturesISO – International Organization for StandardizationKD – KickdownLCD – Liquid Crystal DisplayOEM – Original Equipment ManufacturerOSHA – Occupational Safety and Health AdministrationPPE – Personal Protective EquipmentOSHA – Occupational Safety and Health AdministrationPQR – Procedure Qualification ReportROPS – Rollover Prot ective Structure
SAE – Society of Auto motive Engineers
SCA – Supplemental Coolant AdditiveSCR – Selective Ca talytic Reduction
SDS – Safety Data SheetWPS – Weld Procedure Specification

