MACHINE OPERATION
4-11 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMRestricted Operations
WARNING
  • Use caution when operating work equipment 
while the machine is traveling.
  • Do not operate the machine on any ground that 
lacks sufficient support.
  • Avoid any working conditions that may cause the 
machine to tip over.
  • Do not lift any pers on with the loader.
Failure to follow these warnings could result in 
death or serious injury.
CAUTION
  • Do not attempt work operations such as scraping 
or digging with the hydraulic cylinder fully extended.
  • Do not operate the machine with a fully loaded 
bucket while the hydraulic cylinder is fully retracted or extended. This also includes not striking the ground with the bucket while the bucket cylinder is fully extended, which could shorten the service life of the bucket and/or damage the hydraulic cylinder.
  • When the machine is traveling downhill, do not 
stop the engine or place the transmission in neutral.
Failure to follow these precautions could result in 
injury or damage to the machine, or could cause the machine to operate improperly.
Recommended Operations
Additional operations besides those described here are possible for this machin e with various work tools.
WARNING
  • Contact the foreman before any digging to make 
sure that all underground hazards have been located.
  • Never allow any personnel within the work area 
of the machine while it  is being operated.
  • Avoid moving the transmission control lever to 
abruptly change the direction of the machine without stopping the machine.
  • Avoid sudden stops when lowering the boom. 
Hydraulic shock could damage the hydraulic system.
Failure to follow these warnings could result in 
death or serious injury.NOTE: Refer to the following fo r more information. 
“Technical Specifications ” on page 6-4, “General 
Safety” on page 2-2, and “Machine Safety” on page 2-3 prior to operating the machine.
Loading Operation
General Purpose Bucket Loading
0000954Figure 4-12
Method for loose material:
1. Hold the steering wheel with the left hand and use 
the right hand to operate the joystick.
2. Drive toward the material with the machine in 2nd 
gear and the center of the bucket facing the material pile.
3. Use the joystick to lower the bucket to approximately 
20 in. (508 mm) above the ground.
4. With the loader approximately 3 ft. (1 m) away from 
the material pile, lower the bucket until the bucket engages the ground.
5. Press the kickdown (KD) button on the transmission 
control lever to downshift the machine from 2nd gear to 1st gear.
6. Press the accelerator pedal as needed to push the 
bucket into the material. When the material stalls the forward motion, release the accelerator pedal and move the joystick left to curl the bucket.
7. Release the joystick to return to the neutral position 
when the bucket is loaded.
Multipurpose Bucket Loading
0000954Figure 4-13
Method for hard materials or materials with greater 
density.

4-12MACHINE OPERATION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMM1. Hold the steering wheel with the left hand and use 
the right hand to operate the joystick.
2. Drive toward the material  with the center of the 
bucket facing the material pile and the machine in 2nd gear.
3. Use the joystick to lower the bucket to approximately 
20 in. (508 mm) above the ground.
4. With the loader approximately 3 ft. (1 m) away from 
the material pile, lower the bucket until the bucket engages the ground.
5. Press the kickdown (KD) button on the transmission 
control lever to downshift the machine from 2nd gear to 1st gear.
6. Press the accelerator pedal as needed to push the 
bucket into the material. When the material stalls forward motion, release the accelerator pedal.
7. Move the joystick left to curl the bucket and shift the 
material into the bucket.
8. Move the joystick right as needed to return the 
bucket to the previous position.
9. Press the accelerator pedal as needed to push the 
bucket into the material. When the material stalls forward motion or the bucket is loaded, release the accelerator pedal and move the joystick left to curl 
the bucket.
10. Release the joystick to return to the neutral position 
when the bucket is loaded.
NOTE: Repeat these steps as necessary until the desired 
amount of material is loaded within the bucket capacity.
Backing Away from the Material Pile
1. Move the joystick left to curl the bucket when the 
bucket is loaded.
2. Release the joystick to allo w it to return to neutral 
when the stopper on the bucket contacts the boom.
NOTE: This results in attainin g the maximum tilt angle.
3. Move the joystick backw ard to raise the boom 
approximately 20 in. (508  mm) so the bucket will 
clear the material pile. Move  the transmission control 
lever to R (reverse) and press the accelerator pedal as needed to back away from the material pile.
4. Press the kickdown (KD) button on the transmission 
control lever to shift the ma chine from 1st gear to 2nd 
gear while backing away from the pile, as needed.Material Hauling
1. Keep the bucket in the carry position, 20 in. (508 
mm) above the ground with the bucket rolled back to allow the loader to move smoothly and avoid spillage 
during the hauling operation.
2. Select a speed according to the distance and road 
condition. Slow down while passing over a ditch or bump on the road.
3. Pass obstacles slowly to reduce the impact on the 
loader and avoid spillage.
4. Apply the service brake, if necessary, to slow the 
loader down.
Dumping
Dumping into Trucks or Hoppers
1. Press the kickdown (KD) button if necessary to 
downshift the transmission when approaching the truck or hopper at a low travel speed.
2. Move the joystick backward to raise the boom and 
bucket high enough to clear the truck or hopper.
3. Use the service brake pedal to slow and stop travel 
when the bucket is above the truck or hopper.
4. Move the joystick right to uncurl the bucket and dump 
the load into the truck or the hopper.
NOTES:
•  Make sure the bucket is high enough to clear the 
edge of the truck or hopper when backing away from the truck or hopper.
•Dump the first bucket load into the truck, toward the 
front of the truck body.
•If necessary, move the joysti ck right to curl and left 
to uncurl the bucket quickly two or three times to shake any remaining material out of the bucket.
5. When the load in the bucket has been dumped, 
move the joystick left to curl the bucket.
6. Move the transmission control lever to the R (reverse 
position) and press the accelerator pedal as needed to back away from the truck or hopper.
7. Lower the bucket after the loader is clear from the 
truck or hopper and position the boom until the bucket is approximately 20 in. (508 mm) above the ground.

MACHINE OPERATION
4-13 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMGrading
0000953Figure 4-14
1. Lower the bucket flat against the ground.2. Shift the transmission to forward and select 1st or 
2nd gear.
3. Press the accelerator pedal to move the loader 
forward.
4. Use the joystick to raise or lower the bucket  slightly if 
obstacles are encountered during this operation.
NOTE: Remove any obstacles that can disrupt the 
grading operation.
Scraping
0000952Figure 4-15
Move the joystick right to tilt the bucket edge at an 
approximate 60° angle. Move the joystick forward to lower the boom and moving the bucket edge down until it engages the ground.
On hard ground, move the joystick fully forward (“bucket 
float position”) to allow the bucket to follow the contour of the ground surface.
NOTE: On soft ground, place the joystick at the neutral 
position.
Move the transmission control lever to reverse and select 
1st or 2nd gear. Moving ba ckward, the bucket edge will 
scrape the ground.Lifting
WARNING
  • Make sure all lifting devices are in safe operating 
condition and with sufficient capacity rating to safely support the intended load.
  • Never lift the machine with a person inside the 
cab.
  • Allow no one to stand close to or under a lifted 
machine.
  • To prevent unexpected movement of the 
machine, make sure the machine engine is shut down and the battery disconnect switch is set to the OFF position before beginning the lifting procedure.
  • Keep the machine level during lifting.  • Always lift with the longitudinal centerlines of the 
upper structure and undercarriage parallel to each other.
Failure to follow these warnings could result in 
death or serious injury.
Observe the lifting capacity of devices used when using 
this machine for lifting. Make sure that the lifting devices are not damaged or deteriorated before beginning the lifting operation.
Machine Storage
Long-Term Storage
Proper preparation for long-te rm storage will reduce the 
chances for damage or deterioration of the machine.
NOTE: Long-term storage is defined as a storage period 
more than 30 days.
Preparation
1. Clean the machine.
2. Change the engine oil. See “Change the Engine Oil 
and Filter” on page 5-12.
3. Lubricate the machine. See “Recommended 
Lubricants, Fuel, and Engine Coolant” on page 5-6.
4. Apply grease to any exposed hydraulic cylinder rods.
NOTICE!
  • Never turn the battery disconnect switch to OFF 
while the engine is running.
  • After machine shutdown, wait at least 1 minute 
for the Engine Control Module (ECM) to complete its shutdown before turning the battery disconnect switch to OFF.60

4-14MACHINE OPERATION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMFailure to follow this notice could damage the 
machine or cause it to operate improperly.
5. Disconnect the negative (–) battery terminal or 
remove the batteries and store them in a separate location. See “Replace a Battery” on page 5-28.
6. Close and lock all doors.
During Storage
WARNING
During indoor storage, if an anti-rusting operation 
is performed, open the windows and doors to provide proper ventilation and avoid gas poisoning. Failure to follow this warning could result in death or serious injury.
NOTICE!
Wipe all dirt, oils, and grease off of cylinder pistons before operating the equipmen t. Failure to follow this 
notice could cause damage to the machine or cause the machine to operate improperly.
Once a month:1. Start and run the engine at low idle. See “Starting the 
Engine” on page 4-5.
2. Warm-up the machine to reach normal operating 
temperatures.
3. Drive the machine a short distance.4. Cycle each cylinder a few times.5. Lubricate all exposed hydraulic cylinder rods with 
grease. See “Lubricating Grease/Temperature Data” on page 5-7.
6. Turn on the air conditioner and allow it to run for 3 to 
5 minutes to lubricate the compressor and related parts. See “Climat e Control Panel” on page 3-17.
7. Return the machine to the proper storage location 
and condition.
8. Shutdown the engine. See “Engine Shutdown” on 
page 4-7.
Return to Operation
1. Clean the grease from the cylinder rods.
2. Check the fuel and engine oil for water 
contamination.
3. Examine the exterior of the machine for signs of rust 
or damage and repair as necessary.
4. Start the engine and test all operations. See “Starting 
the Engine” on page 4-5.Transportation Information
Applicable laws and regulations must be observed when transporting the machine:
• When transporting the machine on a trailer, confirm 
the length, width, height, and weight capacity of the trailer before loading.
• Investigate the road conditions in advance (for 
example, dimension restrictions, weight restrictions, and traffic regulations).
WARNING
  • To prevent the machine from tipping over, select 
a firm and level location that is a safe distance from any road or structure.
  • Make sure the trailer is properly chocked to 
prevent any movement.
  • Use an access ramp with enough length, 
strength, and width to properly support the machine. The ramp grade should not exceed 15°. 
  • Drive slowly at the junction of the ramp and the 
trailer. The machine may shift suddenly due to a change in its center of gravity.
  • Use a signalman to alert the operator to any 
potential hazards.
Failure to follow these warnings could result in 
death or serious injury.
Loading the Machine
Choose a transport trailer suitable for the machine’s 
weight and dimensions.
Load the machine on firm, level ground and keep the 
machine a safe distance away from roads.
NOTE: Contact a SANY dealer for the proper protection 
for the cab during transport.
1. Chock the trailer wheels.
2. Secure two access ramps of equal length parallel to 
the trailer.
NOTE: The two ramps shall be equally spaced from the 
centerline of the trailer and the mounting angle must not exceed 15°.
3. Clean the wheels and the access ramps of mud or 
other debris to prevent slipping during loading.
4. Start the engine, and posi tion the machine so the 
centerline of the machine matches the centerline of the trailer.
5. Raise the bucket high enough to clear the access 
ramps and trailer during the loading process.
6. Slowly drive the loader up the ramps and onto the 
trailer.

