MACHINE OPERATION
4-5 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMStarting the Engine
WARNING
  • Confirm that the surrounding area is clear of 
personnel and obstructions, and sound the horn before starting the engine.
  • Always start the engine from the operator seat. 
Never start the engine by shorting the starter solenoid or starter relay.
  • Never use ether starting fluid to start the engine. 
Ether is highly flammable and can cause a fire or an explosion.
  • Exhaust gas contains carbon monoxide. Carbon 
monoxide is an invisible and odorless gas, and is toxic. Provide adequate ventilation when starting 
the engine in a confined space.
Failure to follow these warnings could result in 
death or serious injury.
NOTICE!
Never crank the engine for more than 15 seconds. If the engine fails to start after 15 seconds, stop and allow the starter motor to cool for at least 2 minutes before attempting another start. If the engine fails to start after five attempts, contact a SANY dealer.
Failure to follow this notice could damage the machine or 
cause it to operate improperly. 
0004620Figure 4-5
1. Make sure all daily maintenance check have been 
completed. See “Daily or Every 10 Hours” on page 5-9 for required daily maintenance check items.2. Turn the battery disconnect switch to ON. See 
“Battery Disconnect Switch” on page 3-8.
3. When in the operator seat, buckle the seat belt. See 
“Seat Belt” on page 3-18.
4. Make sure that the joystick (2) and joystick 
Forward-Neutral-Reverse (F-N-R) rocker switch (1) are in N (neutral position).
NOTE: The joystick should move fr eely and return to the 
neutral position when released.
0004618Figure 4-6
5. Move the transmission control lever (3) to the N 
(neutral) position.
0000962Figure 4-7
6. Turn the key switch (4) to ON. See “Key Switch” on 
page 3-16.
7. Turn the key switch to START. When the engine 
starts, immediately release the key and it will return 
to the ON position.
NOTICE!
Never crank the engine for more than 15 seconds. If the engine fails to start after 15 seconds, stop and allow the starter motor to cool for at least 2 minutes before attempting another start. If the engine fails to start after five attempts, contact a SANY dealer. Failure to follow this notice could damage the machine or cause it to operate improperly.
21
3
4

4-6MACHINE OPERATION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMM8. After the engine starts, immediately check for black 
exhaust smoke, very loud noise, or excessive vibration.
NOTE: Shutdown the engine immediately by turning the 
key switch to OFF or by pressing the emergency stop switch on the right control console, if any of these items are observed and contact a SANY dealer.
9. Check the monitor for any failure codes.
NOTE: Shutdown the engine immediat ely if a failure code 
is shown on the display screen and contact a SANY dealer.
Jump-Start the Engine
WARNING
Before proceeding with any battery maintenance procedure, observe the following precautions:
  • Battery gases are explosive. Never smoke 
around batteries or expose them to sparks or open flames. Work in a well-ventilated area.
  • Wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when 
working with batteries.
  • When working with any live electrical power 
circuit, make sure to remove any metal objects 
(rings, watches, jewelry, etc.) that could come in contact with electrical circuits and cause a short-circuit.
Failure to follow these wa rnings could result in 
death or serious injury.
NOTICE!
  • The starting system voltage and the battery 
voltage in the boosting machine should be no more than 24V. Never use a welder or equipment with a higher voltage system to jump-start the machine. Using higher volt age to jump-start the 
engine may damage the electrical system or cause an unexpected explosion or fire. Always jump-start the engine with equal voltages.
  • The jumper cables and their clamps must be 
undamaged, free of corrosion, suitable for the battery amperage, and securely attached.
  • All machine controls mu st be set in their neutral 
position.
  • Use caution when disconnecting jumper cables 
after both engines are running. Never allow the jumper cable clamps to touch each other.
Failure to follow this notice could damage the 
machine or cause it to operate improperly.1. Make sure the key switch is in the OFF position on 
both machines.
2. Clamp one end of a jumper cable to the positive (+) 
terminal of the drained battery.
3. Clamp the other end of the same jumper cable to the 
positive (+) terminal of the charged battery.
4. Clamp one end of a second jumper cable to the 
ground (-) terminal of the charged battery.
5. Clamp the other end of the second jumper cable to 
the negative (-) terminal or an unpainted part of the structure of the machine with the drained battery.
6. Start the engine of the machine with the charged 
battery and run it at medium speed. See “Starting the Engine” on page 4-5.
7. Attempt to start the engine of the machine with the 
drained battery. Retry every 3 minutes if the engine will not start.
NOTE: Contact a SANY dealer if the engine will not start 
after five attempts.
8. Disconnect the jumper cables from the machine that 
had the drained battery in reverse of how they were installed.
9. Disconnect the jumper cables from the machine with 
the charged battery in the same way.
Warm-Up Operation
WARNING
  • In case of emergency, irregular engine operation, 
or other faults, turn the key switch to OFF or press the emergency stop switch to stop the engine.
  • Do not operate the machine immediately after 
starting the engine. Insufficient warm-up of the machine and hydraulic oil may cause slow control response or ab rupt movement during 
operation, resulting in serious accidents. Warm-up is especially ne cessary in cold areas.
Failure to follow these warnings could result in 
death or serious injury.
NOTICE!
Never over-rev the engine during the warm-up period, which could result in damage to the engine bearings, pistons, and valves. Failure to follow this notice could damage the engine or cause it to operate improperly.
1. Start the engine. See “Starting the Engine” on 
page 4-5.
2. Check for black exhaust smoke, very loud noise, or 
excessive vibration.

MACHINE OPERATION
4-7 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMNOTE: If these conditions are observed, shutdown the 
engine immediately and contact a SANY dealer.
3. Run the engine at low idle for approximately 
5 minutes.
4. Operate all control levers in sequence to verify 
proper function and operation.
5. If the hydraulic system responds slowly, continue to 
run the engine at low idle for a longer warm-up period.
6. With the machine running, observe the various 
gauges and displays. Continue the warm-up until engine temperature reaches 140°F (60°C), the coolant temperature reaches 176°F–212°F 
(80°C–100°C), and hydraulic oil reaches normal operating temperature of 122°F–158°F 
(50°C–70°C) before beginning operation.
7. Proceed with normal operations.
Idle the Engine
Idling the engine for long periods wastes fuel, and causes 
carbon formation, oil dilution, formation of lacquer or gummy deposits on the valves , pistons, and rings, and 
rapid accumulation of sludge in the engine.
Allow the engine to run at low idle until the engine coolant 
temperature reaches 140°F (60°C) before beginning operation.
New Machine Break-In
NOTE: The machine has been thoroughly tested and 
adjusted before shipme nt. However, initial 
operation of the machine under severe conditions can adversely affect the performance of the new machine or shorten the machine life. SANY recommends a break-in period of 100 service 
hours for a new machine. Properly breaking-in a 
new machine is crucial fo r long service life by 
allowing time for internal engine parts to break-in. Make sure the machine is in normal working condition before proceeding with the break-in.
1. Start and run the engine at low idle until it reaches 
proper operating temperatures. Do not move the controls.
2. Avoid operating the machine under heavy loads or at 
high speeds during the break-in period. Operate as much as possible in the 1/2 to 3/4 throttle or load range. Do not operate this machine with a full load during the break-in period.
3. Avoid sudden starts, movements, or stops except in 
an emergency.
4. Monitor the instruments frequently – especially the 
engine oil pressure and engine coolant temperature. Shutdown the machine at the first indication of an abnormal reading.5. Avoid running the engine at low idle for long periods 
of time.
6. Manage engine power to allow acceleration to 
governed speed when conditions require more power. Do not over-rev the engine.
7. Always allow the engine to cool before shutting it 
down.
8. After shutting down the engine, check all fluid levels.
Engine Shutdown
NOTICE!
  • Stopping the engine before it cools can 
accelerate engine component wear. Never abruptly shutdown the engine, except in an emergency.
  • Never stop the engine suddenly when it is 
overheated. Run the engine at low idle to allow the engine to cool down gradually before shutting down the engine.
Failure to follow this notice could damage the 
machine or cause it to operate improperly.
1. Park the machine on a flat, level, and stable surface.
2. Lower the bucket to the ground.
0004620Figure 4-8
3. Move the joystick (1) to the neutral position.
NOTE: The joystick should move fr eely and return to the 
neutral position when released.
1

