SAFETY
2-7 SW405K Wheel Loader OMMJob Safety
It is the owner’s/ope rator’s responsibilit y to replace any 
safety decals that are damaged or missing from the machine.
Never leave the machine running while it is unattended. 
Always park the machine in a safe, level area, lower any work equipment to the ground, lock the controls, and secure the machine to prevent tampering by unauthorized personnel. Shut down the engine before exiting the machine.
Before starting any work operations, travel, or 
maintenance procedures, make sure all personnel are a safe distance from all points  of the machine. Never allow 
anyone to stand near the mach ine while it is in operation 
or under maintenance or repair.
It is the responsibility of th e operator’s employer to 
conduct periodic safety trai ning and familiarize all 
personnel with emergency procedures.
If pedestrians are in the area, sound the horn and 
proceed slowly.
When working with another person on a jobsite, make 
sure that all personnel involved understand all industry-standard hand signals that are to be used.
The operator shall respond to operating signals from the 
proper signal person only, but shall obey a stop signal at 
any time from anyone.
The operator must always be able to see the work 
location. If this is not possible, then a signalman must be used. If visibility becomes bl ocked for any reason, stop 
operation immediately.
If the machine is equipped with operator aids, 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
requires this equipment to be used when operating the 
machine.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
Before using PPE, make su re it is in good working 
condition.
Hearing Protection
Prolonged exposure to loud noise can cause impairment or loss of hearing. Wear suitable hearing protection to protect against loud noise.
Travel and Operation Precautions
Confirm the relative positions of the frame and operator before operating the machine.
Traveling with the machine may present hazards. When 
traveling with the machine, always travel in a safe, 
controlled manner and remain alert at all times. Be sure the areas around the machine are clearly visible.When traveling over rough ground, travel at low speed 
and steer carefully. Whenever possible, avoid traveling over obstacles or raised area s. Traveling over obstacles 
or raised areas could result in loss of control or damage to the machine. When traveling over raised areas, always travel at low speed.
During travel, always mainta in a safe distance from 
people and surrounding objects. Always check to make sure areas such as  bridges and roadw ays will support the 
weight of the machine before attempting to cross.
Before traveling in public areas, always gain approval 
from local authorities and follow their instructions.
Raise work equipment 8 in.–12 in. (20 cm–30 cm) above 
the ground when traveling.
When traveling or operating in shallow water, be aware of 
its depth and current.
Inclined Areas
Traveling on an incline can be dangerous. To prevent tipping, loss of control, or a rollover, it is important to 
follow these rules:
• Always check the firmness of the inclined surface 
before attempting to travel on it.
• Always travel straight up or straight down an incline.
• Avoid turning on an incline.• Avoid sudden stops.
Snow or Frozen Surfaces
Be careful when traveling or operating the machine on 
frozen or snow-covered surfaces. The ability to 
maneuver the machine is seriously affected. The machine may not respond as expected when turning.
Other precautions are:
• Avoid any rapid movement, acceleration, or quick 
stopping. Always be aware of the increased stopping distance required on these surfaces.
• Avoid deep snow or frozen bodies of water.• Even a slight incline may cause the machine to slip. 
Be extra carefu l when working on an inclined 
surface covered with snow or ice.
• When traveling or moving the machine on a 
snow-covered incline, allow extra distance to bring the machine to a safe stop.

2-8SAFETY
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMAvoid Backover Accidents
Keep the windows, mirrors, cameras, and lights clean 
and in good condition.
Before moving the machine, make sure all bystanders 
are clear of the intended path.
Before moving the machine, warn others with the horn.Use a signalman if the view is obstructed when backing 
up. Keep the signalman in view at all times.
Dust and Chemical Hazards
Hazardous dust or chemicals present a serious danger when they are released or mishandled. All workers involved should use approv ed personal protective 
equipment (PPE) and follow all environmental safety regulations.
Consult the Safety Data S heet (SDS) for guidelines on 
PPE, proper handling and clean up, and correct reporting 
agencies if needed.
Environmental Precautions
0000636Figure 2-2
Oil and coolant poured onto the ground, into bodies of 
water, into storm drains, or tossed into trash cans (even in a sealed container) can contaminate and pollute soil, groundwater, streams, and rivers.
Recycling used oil, coolant, and filters helps conserve 
natural resources and is good for the environment.
Obey all regulations when disposing of harmful items 
such as oil, fuel, filters, batt eries, hydraulic oil, and used 
parts.Precautions in Hi gh-Voltage Areas
0002719Figure 2-3
WARNING
Overhead power lines carry high-voltage 
electricity that can discharge to the ground through the machine, even without direct contact with the machine’s structure. Avoid direct contact with high-voltage power lines while operating. 
High-voltage contact could result in equipment damage, death, or serious injury.
Stay clear of overhead power lines. They are an electrical 
hazard. Treat all overhead power lines as being energized and not insulated.
Be sure all underground ut ilities have been marked 
before excavating.

