1-2INTRODUCTION
SW405K Wheel Loader OMMAbout This Manual
This manual provides op eration and maintenance 
information for the SW405K wheel loader.
WARNING
Unsafe operation and maintenance of this machine could result in death or serious injury. This machine must be operated and maintained by trained and experienced personnel. Do not operate or work on this machine without first reading and understanding this operation and maintenance manual.
It is important to read and understand this manual before 
beginning any operation or service. All personnel involved with this machine should read this manual 
periodically to remain knowledgeable on its operation and service.
Items addressed in this manual are designed to help the 
operator or service personnel:
• Understand the controls  and operation of the 
machine.
• Point out possible hazardous situations when 
operating or maintaining the machine.
• Increase machine efficiency during operation.• Prolong the service life of the machine.• Reduce maintenance costs.
Continuing improvements in the design of this machine 
can lead to changes which may not be covered in this manual. Contact a SANY dealer for the latest available information on the machine or to answer any questions regarding informati on in this manual.Documentation Package
This documentation applies only to this machine and 
should not be used with any other machine. The documentation for this machine includes the following items:
Operation and Maintenance Manual
A copy of this manual must be stored in the machine or be accessible to the operator at all times. If the machine is sold, a copy of this manual must be provided to the new owner.
A copy of the operation and maintenance manual should 
be made available to maintenance personnel when servicing the machine.
Parts Manual
The parts manual consists of parts lists and matching drawings used for ordering spare parts as needed. The parts manual must be made available to all service personnel.
Maintenance Log
The maintenance log lists regularly scheduled maintenance that should be performed by the operator or service personnel. All maintenance performed on the machine must be recorded in the maintenance log.

